[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> First of all, I understand
evil as that which increases
illusion, or paranoia, or
separateness, or separates,
or increases the multiplicity.
And you can really redefine
most of your evil terms,
and they work in
that definition.
Good is that which
unifies, awakens,
brings to consciousness, and
relieves human suffering, which
is the same thing.
I also see that the game
is designed perfectly
and that at the level where
good exists, so does evil.
And this polarity
reinforces itself in a way.
And it exists at a plane
where polarities are.
And so that you
can look at the act
itself and then impose
that statement good or evil
depending on its
function or its effect.
And you learn more
and more that acts
per se and neither good
or evil, but rather
the attachments
of the people that
are performing the
acts that determine
whether they're good or evil.
It's not the people
that are good or evil,
it's the attachments
that are good or evil.
And behind every
evil act is another
being just like you
and I. It's just
a being who's caught
in a karma that's
leading them to perform
out of their attachments
an act which has evil
consequences, which
is increasing illusion.
As far as what do
you do about it,
you reward and
punish good and evil.
You recognize both good and evil
as existing in the universe.
But as you become more
conscious, less and less
are you able to do things which
would be defined as evil, not
because you think you
shouldn't do them,
because you're afraid of
somebody striking you dead,
but just because you can't do
them because it's too absurd.
I mean if I think you and I
are us, instead of you are him
or them, how can
I steal from you?
I don't steal from us?
I may steal from them, but I'm
not going to steal from us.
And the predicament is that with
increasing consciousness, more
and more of the time
you're living at the plane
where you see us beings
hanging out on this Earth,
on this world, you know
this little round sphere.
And those things which limit
human freedom and increase
illusion, you work
to get rid of.
And I think, ultimately,
that's the way
you deal with good and evil.
You do it because that's
your incarnation to do it.
At the same moment,
recognizing that all
that exists functionally.
Suffering exists.
Evil exists.
Wars exist,
pestilence, starving.
You work full time to end them
all at the same moment you
know that's why they're
there because they're
supposed to be there.
And that's one of the
paradoxes that people
have the hardest time with--
seeing that it's all perfect
and then understanding
social responsibility.
And that's the
ability, the wisdom,
to be able to live with
two levels of consciousness
simultaneously.
To work full time knowing that
it's perfect when you began
and perfect when you ended.
And that your working full
time was perfect, too.
In "The Book of
Tokens," it says if you
know not that the
prince of darkness
is but the other face of the
king of light, you know not me.
To me, it's obvious
there's only one.
And all law comes
out of that one.
And the two comes
out of the one.
And because two
comes out of one,
good and evil, or
dark and light,
or the prince of darkness,
it all comes out of the one.
And the one is the law.
That's the law.
That's the first commandment--
thou shalt only love the one.
The little bit I've been
able to grasp or feel
of the universe, the law has
unfolded in its exquisiteness.
And it boggles, of
course, the mind,
because the mind is merely a
little subproduct of this law.
And the law isn't logical.
The law is full of
paradoxes, because it's quote
"the natural law" or the Tao.
So in that sense,
it's all perfect.
It's all lawful.
It's all happening just
according to plan, including
what we have to do about it.